Create shared .gitconfig and .gitmessage with commit message template (#37951)
angular/angular: CONTRIBUTING.md

 - [Commit Message Guidelines](#commit)
 - [Signing the CLA](#cla)

## <a name="coc"></a> Code of Conduct

Help us keep Angular open and inclusive.
Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct][coc].

## <a name="question"></a> Got a Question or Problem?

Do not open issues for general support questions as we want to keep GitHub issues for bug reports and feature requests.

> You've got much better chances of getting your question answered on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/angular) where the questions should be tagged with tag `angular`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, we recommend using [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/angular) to ask support-related questions. When creating a new question on Stack Overflow, make sure to add the `angular` tag.
```

If you would like to chat about the question in real-time, you can reach out via [our gitter channel][gitter].

## <a name="issue"></a> Found a Bug?

If you find a bug in the source code, you can help us by [submitting an issue](#submit-issue) to our [GitHub Repository][github].

> Even better, you can[submit a Pull Request](#submit-pr) with a fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even better, you can [submit a Pull Request](#submit-pr) with a fix.
```

## <a name="feature"></a> Missing a Feature?
You can *request* a new feature by [submitting an issue](#submit-issue) to our GitHub Repository.
If you would like to *implement* a new feature, please consider the size of the change in order to determine the right steps to proceed:

* For a **Major Feature**, first open an issue and outline your proposal so that it can be discussed.

>   This will also allow us to better coordinate our efforts, prevent duplication of work, and help you to craft the change so that it is successfully accepted into the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This process allows us to better coordinate our efforts, prevent duplication of work, and help you to craft the change so that it is successfully accepted into the project.
```

  **Note**: Adding a new topic to the documentation, or significantly re-writing a topic, counts as a major feature.

* **Small Features** can be crafted and directly [submitted as a Pull Request](#submit-pr).

## <a name="submit"></a> Submission Guidelines

### <a name="submit-issue"></a> Submitting an Issue

Before you submit an issue, please search the issue tracker, maybe an issue for your problem already exists and the discussion might inform you of workarounds readily available.

We want to fix all the issues as soon as possible, but before fixing a bug we need to reproduce and confirm it.

> In order to reproduce bugs, we will systematically ask you to provide a minimal reproduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to reproduce bugs, we require that you to provide a minimal reproduction.
```

> Having a minimal reproducible scenario gives us a wealth of important information without going back & forth to you with additional questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having a minimal reproducible scenario gives us a wealth of important information without going back and forth to you with additional questions.
```

A minimal reproduction allows us to quickly confirm a bug (or point out a coding problem) as well as confirm that we are fixing the right problem.

> We will be insisting on a minimal reproduction scenario in order to save maintainers' time and ultimately be able to fix more bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We require a minimal reproduction scenario to save maintainers' time and ultimately be able to fix more bugs.
```
Isn't this the same as line 65?

Author: it is. this is just to emphasise the point -  we can't say this often enough - people still ignore it. :-)

Author: I think ultimately this whole doc needs to be rewritten from scratch, so I'll keep it as is for now to reduce the churn.

> Interestingly, from our experience, users often find coding problems themselves while preparing a minimal reproduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, users find coding problems themselves while preparing a minimal reproduction.
```

Author: +1 but I changed "users" to "developers" since "users" typically means end users.

We understand that sometimes it might be hard to extract essential bits of code from a larger codebase but we really need to isolate the problem before we can fix it.

Unfortunately, we are not able to investigate / fix bugs without a minimal reproduction, so if we don't hear back from you, we are going to close an issue that doesn't have enough info to be reproduced.

You can file new issues by selecting from our [new issue templates](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/new/choose) and filling out the issue template.

### <a name="submit-pr"></a> Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

Before you submit your Pull Request (PR) consider the following guidelines:

1. Search [GitHub](https://github.com/angular/angular/pulls) for an open or closed PR that relates to your submission.

>    You don't want to duplicate effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You don't want to duplicate existing efforts.
```

1. Be sure that an issue describes the problem you're fixing, or documents the design for the feature you'd like to add.
   Discussing the design upfront helps to ensure that we're ready to accept your work.

1. Please sign our [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](#cla) before sending PRs.

>    We cannot accept code without this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We cannot accept code without a signed CLA.
```

>    Make sure you sign with the primary email address of the Git identity that has been granted access to the Angular repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Make sure you sign with the primary email address of the Git identity that has access to the Angular repository.
```

feature.
* **Small Features** can be crafted and directly [submitted as a Pull Request](#submit-pr).

## <a name="submit"></a> Submission Guidelines

### <a name="submit-issue"></a> Submitting an Issue

Before you submit an issue, please search the issue tracker, maybe an issue for your problem already exists and the discussion might inform you of workarounds readily available.

> We want to fix all the issues as soon as possible, but before fixing a bug we need to reproduce and confirm it.

Reviewer 2: Why break these up into more paragraphs? I'd generally prefer to keep unrelated changes out of this PR 

(looking at it, this whole contributing guide needs some attention...)

Author: This doc is super old and rusty. I updated it to the current style we use for all md files in angular/angular - one-sentece-per-line. I tried to keep all the formatting changes in a separate commit, but given the amount of cleanup I've done I was not able to isolate all the changes like that. Sorry about that.

### <a name="submit-pr"></a> Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

Before you submit your Pull Request (PR) consider the following guidelines:

1. Search [GitHub](https://github.com/angular/angular/pulls) for an open or closed PR that relates to your submission.

>    You don't want to duplicate effort.

Reviewer 3: I'll pretend I didn't notice that some ordered-list items are indented by two spaces and some by three 😛
<sub><sub>(But I did 😛)</sub></sub>

Author: of course you did

1. Be sure that an issue describes the problem you're fixing, or documents the design for the feature you'd like to add.
  Discussing the design upfront helps to ensure that we're ready to accept your work.

1. Please sign our [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](#cla) before sending PRs.
  We cannot accept code without this.
  Make sure you sign with the primary email address of the Git identity that has been granted access to the Angular repository.

1. Fork the angular/angular repo.

1. Make your changes in a new git branch:

     ```shell
     git checkout -b my-fix-branch master
     ```

1. Create your patch, **including appropriate test cases**.

1. Follow our [Coding Rules](#rules).

> 1. Run the full Angular test suite, as described in the [developer documentation][dev-doc],
>   and ensure that all tests pass.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the full Angular test suite, as described in the [developer documentation][dev-doc], and ensure that all tests pass.
```

> 1. Commit your changes using a descriptive commit message that follows our

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Commit your changes using a descriptive commit message that follows our [commit message conventions](#commit).
```

>   [commit message conventions](#commit).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

We have very precise rules over how our git commit messages can be formatted.
This leads to **more readable messages** that are easy to follow when looking through the **project history**.
But also, we use the git commit messages to **generate the Angular change log**.

Each commit message consists of a **header**, a **body**, and a **footer**.

```
<header>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

The header is mandatory and must conform to the [Commit Message Header](#commit-header) format.

The body is mandatory for all commits except for those of scope "docs".
When the body is required it must be at least 20 characters long.

The footer is optional.

Any line of the commit message cannot be longer than 100 characters.

#### <a href="commit-header"></a>Commit Message Header

```
<type>(<scope>): <summary>
  ┃       ┃          ┃
  ┃       ┃          ┗━⫸ Summary in present tense. Not capitalized. No period at the end.
  ┃       ┃
  ┃       ┗━⫸ Commit Scope: animations|bazel|benchpress|common|compiler|compiler-cli|core|
  ┃                          elements|forms|http|language-service|localize|platform-browser|

>   ┃                          platform-browser-dynamic|platform-server|platform-webworker

Author: thanks

    git pull --ff upstream master
    ```

## <a name="rules"></a> Coding Rules
To ensure consistency throughout the source code, keep these rules in mind as you are working:

* All features or bug fixes **must be tested** by one or more specs (unit-tests).
* All public API methods **must be documented**.
* We follow [Google's JavaScript Style Guide][js-style-guide], but wrap all code at **100 characters**.

   An automated formatter is available, see [DEVELOPER.md](docs/DEVELOPER.md#clang-format).

## <a name="commit"></a> Commit Message Format

*This specification is inspired and supersedes the [AngularJS commit message format][commit-message-format].*

> We have very precise rules over how our git commit messages can be formatted.

Reviewer: When referring to Git as a system, it is a proper noun and should be capitalized. When referring to a command, like `git push`, lowercase is fine.

* **changelog**: used for updating the release notes in CHANGELOG.md
* **dev-infra**: used for dev-infra related changes within the directories /scripts, /tools and /dev-infra
* **docs-infra**: used for docs-app (angular.io) related changes within the /aio directory of the repo
* **migrations**: used for changes to the `ng update` migrations.
* **ngcc**: used for changes to the [Angular Compatibility Compiler](./packages/compiler-cli/ngcc/README.md)
* **ve**: used for changes specific to ViewEngine (legacy compiler/renderer).
* none/empty string: useful for `style`, `test` and `refactor` changes that are done across all packages (e.g. `style: add missing semicolons`) and for docs changes that are not related to a specific package (e.g. `docs: fix typo in tutorial`).

##### Summary

The summary contains a succinct description of the change:

* use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
* don't capitalize the first letter
* no dot (.) at the end

#### Commit Message Body

Just as in the summary, use the imperative, present tense: "fix" not "fixed" nor "fixes".

> The content of the body should include the motivation for the change (hint: answer the question: "WHY this change?") and if useful to clarify the impact of the change also include the comparison of new vs previous behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Explain the motivation for the change in the commit message body. This commit message should explain _why_ you're sending the change. You can include a comparison of the previous behavior compared to the new behavior in order to illustrate the impact of the change.
```

Author: that reads better. thanks.

> The content of the body should include the motivation for the change (hint: answer the question: "WHY this change?") and if useful to clarify the impact of the change also include the comparison of new vs previous behavior.

Author: no, that's not what I meant, I think I'm missing some commas. I'll try again.

> The content of the body should include the motivation for the change (hint: answer the question: "WHY this change?") and if useful to clarify the impact of the change also include the comparison of new vs previous behavior.

Author: I'm going to go with Jeremy's suggestion which makes this obsolete.

#### Commit Message Footer

The footer can contain information about breaking changes and is also the place to reference GitHub issues, Jira tickets, and other PRs that this commit closes or is related to.

```
BREAKING CHANGE: <breaking change summary>
<BLANK LINE>
<breaking change description + migration instructions>
<BLANK LINE>
<BLANK LINE>
Fixes #<issue number>
```

Breaking Change section should start with the phrase "BREAKING CHANGE: " followed by a summary of the breaking change, a blank line, and a detailed description of the breaking change that also includes migration instructions.

### Revert commits

If the commit reverts a previous commit, it should begin with `revert: `, followed by the header of the reverted commit.

The content of the commit message body should contain:

- information about the SHA of the commit being reverted in the following format: `This reverts commit <SHA>`,
- a clear description of the reason for reverting the commit message.

> **Breaking Changes** should start with the word `BREAKING CHANGE:` with a space or two newlines. The rest of the commit message is then used for this.

Author: thanks
